Registers are used to store data & instructions that are being used immediately by the CPU.
Registers are located on the CPU.
Registers are present in small numbers in any processor.

SRAM - Static Random Access Memory
DRAM - Dynamic Random Access Memory (in general, when we say RAM , we means DRAM only)

Cache is usually implemented using SRAM.
Hard disk(HDD) > Registers > Cache [Storage Capacity]
Cache Memory is limited in Capacity but its not better than Registers.
Cache Memory lies within the Memory heirarchy.

SSDs use flash-based Memory which is faster than the traditional HDDs.
SSDs are non-volatile.(means, Data is non-erasable , data is stored)
SSDs has a large storage Capacity and can store up to serveral hundreds of gigabytes of data.

Latency, Throughput , Density - Are metrics used to compare d/f storage elements.

Register < SRAM < DRAM < SSD < HDD [storage device, in the context of latency]

Binary Search - O(logN) no. of steps are required to search for an element in Memory, where N no. of element is stored in the sorted format in an array.

For an array with "N" elements, o(k^N) will give worst results as far as the smallest change in input is concerned.

Sorted data in an array can be solved with O(logN) time complexity.

In context of MySQL, Hash Tables are used only in in-Memory tables.

Storage is the component of a computer that allows us to store the data on a long-term basis.
RAM is the temporary storage area in the context of program.

SQL - Structured Query Language

Not a relational databases - Document databases, Key-value, graphs, time-series data

Document databases[JSON Data] - MongoDB

Storing data in graphs involve d/f degrees like number of outgoing edges, weight of edges, nodes, etc.
In graphs, path finding is more imp than just just searching the data.
Data on social networks can be stored with the help of graphs.

Redundancy refers to the duplication of data at serveral places in the databases.
Redundancy is used for the purpose of backup.
Data Redundancy increase the cost of storing & retreiving data.

Data Replication refers to having multiple copies of the same data at multiple places with the virtue of reducing server load.

ACID is an acronym for Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation & Durability.

DRAM has more latency than SRAM.
DRAM has more Throughput than SSD.
SSD is more cost-efficient than SRAM.
Among SRAM, DRAM & HDD, HDD are most cost-efficient.

Cold storages are designed to store huge amounts of data that is not read very often.
Cold storages offer high Durability of stored data.

high latency of retrieval from an Amazon glacier takes up to 40-50hrs.

HTTPs provides secure sockets which establishes secure communication b/w client and server.
HTTPs is more advanced and secure version of HTTP.


